[docs] PHP in Gitpod (#418)
gitpod-io/website: src/docs/php-in-gitpod.md

# PHP in Gitpod

Gitpod Supports PHP right out of the box, but more advanced features such as Debugging and other tooling need to be configured, so here is how to do it!

## Example Repositories

> | Repository | Try it |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Repository | Description | Try it |
```

> |------------|--------|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|------------|-------------|--------|
```

> |magento2gitpod|[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/nemke82/magento2gitpod)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| magento2gitpod | Magento 2 optimized setup for Gitpod: Nginx, MySQL, PHP 7.2, PHP-FPM and more | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/nemke82/magento2gitpod) |
```

> |koel|[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/phanan/koel)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| koel | A personal music streaming server that works | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/phanan/koel) |
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## VSCode Extensions
```

### PHP Debug

![](images/phpDebug.gif)

> The PHP Debug extension allows for the debugging of PHP applications from within Gitpod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PHP Debug extension allows debugging PHP applications from within Gitpod.
```

> To add this extension to your repository first you must do two things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add this extension to your repository, you must do two things:
```

> First you must add the following to your [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you must create a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/):
```

```Dockerfile
USER gitpod

RUN sudo apt-get update -q \
    && sudo apt-get install -y php-dev

RUN wget http://xdebug.org/files/xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && tar -xvzf xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && cd xdebug-2.9.1 \
    && phpize \
    && ./configure \
    && make \
    && sudo cp modules/xdebug.so /usr/lib/php/20170718 \
    && sudo bash -c "echo -e '\nzend_extension = /usr/lib/php/20170718/xdebug.so\n[XDebug]\nxdebug.remote_enable = 1\nxdebug.remote_autostart = 1\n' >> /etc/php/7.2/cli/php.ini"
```

> Second, add the following to your [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, reference the above Dockerfile in a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file, then also install the extension, like so:
```

```yaml

> vscode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile

vscode:
```

  extensions:
    - felixfbecker.php-debug@1.13.0:WX8Y3EpQk3zgahy41yJtNQ==
```

> Try it in Gitpod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, here is an [example repository](https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug) that contains a full PHP debugging configuration for Gitpod as described above. You can try it by clicking here:
```

# PHP in Gitpod

Gitpod supports PHP right out of the box, but more advanced features such as debugging can be configured, so here is how to do it!

## Example Repositories

| Repository | Description | Try it |
|------------|-------------|--------|
| magento2gitpod | Magento 2 optimized setup for Gitpod: Nginx, MySQL, PHP 7.2, PHP-FPM and more | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/nemke82/magento2gitpod) |

> | koel | A personal music streaming server that works | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/phanan/koel) |

Reviewer: FYI, another example repository is https://github.com/gitpod-io/symfony-demo. But I'll let you decide whether it makes sense to include it in this list.

Also, maybe your example from below can also be added here? (Just in case someone is looking for as many PHP-in-Gitpod examples as possible.)

Author: I feel that it is ok where it is!

# PHP in Gitpod

> Gitpod Supports PHP right out of the box, but more advanced features such as Debugging and other tooling need to be configured, so here is how to do it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gitpod supports PHP right out of the box, but more advanced features such as debugging can be configured, so here is how to do it!
```

## Example Repositories

| Repository | Description | Try it |
|------------|-------------|--------|
| magento2gitpod | Magento 2 optimized setup for Gitpod: Nginx, MySQL, PHP 7.2, PHP-FPM and more | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/nemke82/magento2gitpod) |
| koel | A personal music streaming server that works | [![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/phanan/koel) |
## VSCode Extensions
### PHP Debug

![](images/phpDebug.gif)
The PHP Debug extension allows debugging PHP applications from within Gitpod.

> To add this extension to your repository, you must do two things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get this extension for your project, you must do two things:
```

> First you must create a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you must create a [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/) for your repository:
```

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

> USER gitpod

Reviewer: This shouldn't be needed.

```suggestion
```

RUN sudo apt-get update -q \
    && sudo apt-get install -y php-dev

RUN wget http://xdebug.org/files/xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && tar -xvzf xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && cd xdebug-2.9.1 \
    && phpize \
    && ./configure \
    && make \
    && sudo cp modules/xdebug.so /usr/lib/php/20170718 \
    && sudo bash -c "echo -e '\nzend_extension = /usr/lib/php/20170718/xdebug.so\n[XDebug]\nxdebug.remote_enable = 1\nxdebug.remote_autostart = 1\n' >> /etc/php/7.2/cli/php.ini"
```

> Second, reference the above Dockerfile in a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file, then also install the extension, like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, reference the above Dockerfile in a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file, and then also install the extension, like so:
```

```yaml
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile
# This is to get rid of the annoying popup feel free to leave this out
ports:
  - port: 9000
    onOpen: ignore
vscode:
  extensions:
    - felixfbecker.php-debug@1.13.0:WX8Y3EpQk3zgahy41yJtNQ==
```

> Finally, here is an [example repository](https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug) that contains a full PHP debugging configuration for Gitpod as described above. You can try it by clicking here:

Reviewer: Optional suggestion:

```suggestion
Finally, here is a full [example repository](https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug) containing the complete Gitpod PHP debug configuration described above. You can try it by clicking here:
```

    && sudo apt-get install -y php-dev

RUN wget http://xdebug.org/files/xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && tar -xvzf xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && cd xdebug-2.9.1 \
    && phpize \
    && ./configure \
    && make \
    && sudo cp modules/xdebug.so /usr/lib/php/20170718 \
    && sudo bash -c "echo -e '\nzend_extension = /usr/lib/php/20170718/xdebug.so\n[XDebug]\nxdebug.remote_enable = 1\nxdebug.remote_autostart = 1\n' >> /etc/php/7.2/cli/php.ini"
```

Second, reference the above Dockerfile in a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file, and then also install the extension, like so:

```yaml
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile
# This is to get rid of the annoying popup feel free to leave this out
ports:
  - port: 9000
    onOpen: ignore
vscode:
  extensions:
    - felixfbecker.php-debug@1.13.0:WX8Y3EpQk3zgahy41yJtNQ==
```

Finally, here is a full [example repository](https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug) containing the complete Gitpod PHP debug configuration described above. You can try it by clicking here:

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug)

> ## PECL package manager in Gitpod

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## PECL Package Manager
```

> The default workspace image also ships with the PECL package manager installed to install packages with it you must add these instructions to your [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gitpod's default workspace image also comes with the [PECL](https://pecl.php.net/) package manager pre-installed. To install packages with it, you must use `sudo pecl install <PACKAGE>` in your repository's [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/), e.g. like so:
```

```Dockerfile

> RUN sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net && sudo pecl install <PACKAGE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUN sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net && \
    sudo pecl install <PACKAGE>
```

Reviewer: I also added the `FROM` line, because I think it's not safe to provide just partial Dockerfile examples.

``` 

> where package equals the thing you want to install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `<EXTENSION>` is the PHP extension you want to install, e.g. `xdebug`.
```

RUN wget http://xdebug.org/files/xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && tar -xvzf xdebug-2.9.1.tgz \
    && cd xdebug-2.9.1 \
    && phpize \
    && ./configure \
    && make \
    && sudo cp modules/xdebug.so /usr/lib/php/20170718 \
    && sudo bash -c "echo -e '\nzend_extension = /usr/lib/php/20170718/xdebug.so\n[XDebug]\nxdebug.remote_enable = 1\nxdebug.remote_autostart = 1\n' >> /etc/php/7.2/cli/php.ini"
```

Second, reference the above Dockerfile in a [`.gitpod.yml`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-gitpod-file/) file, and then also install the extension, like so:

```yaml
image:
  file: .gitpod.Dockerfile
# This is to get rid of the annoying popup feel free to leave this out
ports:
  - port: 9000
    onOpen: ignore
vscode:
  extensions:
    - felixfbecker.php-debug@1.13.0:WX8Y3EpQk3zgahy41yJtNQ==
```

Finally, here is a full [example repository](https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug) containing the complete Gitpod PHP debug configuration described above. You can try it by clicking here:

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/JesterOrNot/Gitpod-PHP-Debug)

## PECL Package Manager

> Gitpod's default workspace image also comes with the [PECL](https://pecl.php.net/) package manager pre-installed. To install packages with it, you must use `sudo pecl install <PACKAGE>` in your repository's [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/), e.g. like so:

Reviewer: My suggestions were inconsistent.

```suggestion
Gitpod's default workspace image also comes with the [PECL](https://pecl.php.net/) package manager pre-installed. To install packages with it, you must use `sudo pecl install <EXTENSION>` in your repository's [`.gitpod.Dockerfile`](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/config-docker/), e.g. like so:
```

```Dockerfile
FROM gitpod/workspace-full

RUN sudo pecl channel-update pecl.php.net && \

>     sudo pecl install <PACKAGE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo pecl install <EXTENSION>
```
